<USER_REQUEST>

Is doc se refernece lo, go through bhi krlena, especially 5th and 8th section for frontend


Multi Site CV Platform, Project Plan
9 Use Cases, 12 Site Locations, Local and Central Dashboards, On Premises Windows GPU Deployment
 
1. Overview
This document lays out how we plan to build, deploy, and scale our computer vision platform across all client sites. Rather than developing a separate solution for every location or every use case, we are building a single product that can be configured for each camera. Which use cases run on a camera, what area it watches, and what thresholds apply are all things we set through configuration, not things we write new code for.
In scope for this phase are 9 use cases and 12 physical site locations, with the number of cameras varying from site to site. A camera may run one use case or several at the same time. Our approach is to build the core product once, meaning the camera agent, the use case plugins, and the dashboard, and then bring every site, camera, and use case online through configuration rather than repeated development work.
The dashboard needs to support two audiences comfortably. Staff at a site should be able to see that site's cameras and alerts even if the connection back to head office is briefly down, while management should be able to see all 12 sites together from one place. We are treating this as a core design requirement from the start, not something to bolt on later.
2. Use Cases
#
Use Case
Description
1
PPE / Safety Gear Check
Confirms workers are wearing helmets, vests and gloves before entering risk zones.
2
Vehicle Recognition (ANPR)
Automatically logs every truck and vehicle entering or leaving a site; digitizes the old manual register.
3
Container Tracking
Tracks containers using a unique container ID and logs the time of movement.
4
Spill Detection
Instantly flags oil, chemical or material spills so cleanup starts immediately.
5
Fire and Smoke Detection
Raises an alarm the moment fire or smoke is visible on any camera.
6
Intrusion Alerts
Flags anyone entering a restricted or unauthorised area.
7
Loitering Detection
Flags anyone lingering suspiciously in a sensitive zone for longer than expected.
8
Stock Counting
Automatically counts boxes, sacks or bottles for accurate dispatch records.
9
Productivity Insights
Shows how efficiently work areas are being used during the day.

3. Site Locations
12 physical sites are in scope for this rollout. Each site runs its own on premises GPU server, its own local database, and its own local storage, and stays in sync with the central server over the network.
#
Site
1
Premix (Micocheni and Taifa)
2
Impala
3
Lugoba
4
Container Depot (AFICD)
5
AILL 1 and 2 / Polytra
6
Fuel Depot and Yard
7
Lake Steel
8
Lake Pipe and Cylinder (Showroom and Retail Sites)
9
Lake Aviation (Dar, Kilimanjaro, Zanzibar)
10
Lake Trans
11
Building Solution
12
Kings Apartment and Offices

A 13th server sits at head office and is reserved for the central dashboard, reporting, and alerting across all 12 sites. It is not a site itself and does not run camera agents.
4. Tech Stack
Layer
Choice
Why
Camera agent, inference, plugins
Python
Strong ecosystem for computer vision and machine learning work, including OpenCV, PyTorch, ONNX, and TensorRT, and matches the team's existing experience.
Dashboard frontend
React.js
One codebase can serve both the local site view and the central view, components can be reused across sites, and it fits the region of interest drawing canvas and the forms heavy onboarding screens well.
Backend API
Python (FastAPI)
Shares a language with the inference code, handles many camera agents and sync requests concurrently, and generates API documentation automatically. Runs both centrally and locally from the same codebase.
Database
PostgreSQL
The data is naturally relational, with sites, cameras, use cases, and alerts related to one another, which Postgres handles well. JSONB columns give us the flexibility of a document store for use case specific settings such as region of interest, thresholds, and color rules, without losing joins or referential integrity. MongoDB was considered but was not chosen, since this data has clear relationships that a relational database expresses more naturally, and JSONB already covers the flexible configuration need. Using the same engine centrally and at every site also keeps operations simple, since there is one thing to back up, tune, and monitor.
Local model serving
Triton Inference Server / ONNX Runtime
Lets multiple use case plugins share one loaded model on the GPU instead of each plugin loading its own copy.
Operating system (site servers)
Windows, per site requirement
Camera agents run as Windows Services, using a tool such as NSSM or a native service wrapper. Docker Desktop or Windows containers handle packaging, and WireGuard has a native Windows client for the connection back to head office.
Site to head office sync
VPN (WireGuard) plus a REST sync API
Each site pulls its configuration and pushes its events, with a local queue so nothing is lost if the connection drops.

5. Dashboard Architecture, Local and Central
The same React application is deployed in two contexts. It is built once, and its scope is controlled by which backend API it talks to and by the permissions of the logged in user, rather than by maintaining two separate frontends.
5.1 Local dashboard, at each site
•     Runs on the site's own GPU server, or a small local web server, and is served on the site network. It keeps working even if the connection to head office is down, since it reads from the local Postgres database.
•     Shows only that site's cameras, use cases, alerts, and health status.
•     Intended for site supervisors and security staff who need real time alerts and camera status without depending on the wide area network.
•     Reads from the local Postgres database through the local backend API.
5.2 Central dashboard, at head office
•     Runs on the 13th server and is served to management over the company network.
•     Shows all 12 sites together, with cross site comparisons, aggregated statistics, an overall health view, and the ability to drill into any single site.
•     Reads from the central Postgres database, which each site's sync agent populates by pushing alert events and health updates (see Section 8).
•     Does not receive raw video, only event and summary data, so it stays lightweight regardless of how many sites are connected.
5.3 How one React codebase serves both
•     A single configuration value points the application at either the local backend API or the central backend API at deployment time.
•     A site scope value on the logged in user's authentication token determines what the API returns. Head office users can query across every site, while site level users are restricted to their own site, enforced on the server rather than in the browser.
•     Shared components such as the camera grid, alert feed, region of interest editor, and health panel simply render whatever site or sites the API returns. A site switcher only appears for head office users.
6. Database Schema
PostgreSQL is used both centrally and at each site, with the same schema throughout. Local databases simply hold the rows that belong to their own site. Core tables and example data are shown below.
6.1 Core tables
CREATE TABLE sites (
	id        	TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
	name      	TEXT NOT NULL,
	location  	TEXT,
	timezone  	TEXT DEFAULT 'Africa/Dar_es_Salaam',
	vpn_status	TEXT DEFAULT 'unknown',
	created_at	TIMESTAMP DEFAULT now()
);
 
CREATE TABLE cameras (
	id        	TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
	site_id   	TEXT REFERENCES sites(id),
	name      	TEXT NOT NULL,
	rtsp_url  	TEXT NOT NULL,
	status    	TEXT DEFAULT 'pending',
	last_frame_at TIMESTAMP,
	created_at	TIMESTAMP DEFAULT now()
);
 
CREATE TABLE usecases (
	id        	TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
	display_name  TEXT NOT NULL,
	description   TEXT,
	config_schema JSONB
);
 
CREATE TABLE camera_usecases (
	id        	SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	camera_id 	TEXT REFERENCES cameras(id),
	usecase_id	TEXT REFERENCES usecases(id),
	roi       	JSONB,
	params    	JSONB,
	enabled   	BOOLEAN DEFAULT true,
	version   	INT DEFAULT 1,
	updated_at	TIMESTAMP DEFAULT now()
);
 
CREATE TABLE alerts (
	id        	BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	site_id   	TEXT REFERENCES sites(id),
	camera_id 	TEXT REFERENCES cameras(id),
	usecase_id	TEXT REFERENCES usecases(id),
	severity  	TEXT DEFAULT 'info',
	detected_at   TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
	clip_path 	TEXT,
	metadata  	JSONB,
	synced_to_hq  BOOLEAN DEFAULT false
);
 
CREATE TABLE site_health (
	id         	BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	site_id    	TEXT REFERENCES sites(id),
	reported_at	TIMESTAMP DEFAULT now(),
	gpu_util_pct   NUMERIC,
	disk_free_gb   NUMERIC,
	cameras_online INT,
	cameras_total  INT
);
6.2 Example rows
Table
Example row
sites
id equals LUGOBA, name equals Lugoba, location equals Lugoba, Tanzania, timezone equals Africa/Dar_es_Salaam
cameras
id equals LUGOBA_CAM_014, site_id equals LUGOBA, name equals Gate 3 Entrance, status equals active
usecases
id equals ppe_check, display_name equals PPE / Safety Gear Check
camera_usecases
camera_id equals LUGOBA_CAM_014, usecase_id equals ppe_check, enabled equals true, see JSON below

6.3 Example camera_usecases.params, PPE Check
{
  "parts_required": ["helmet", "vest"],
  "color_rules": {
	"helmet": ["yellow", "white"],
	"vest": ["orange"]
  },
  "confidence_threshold": 0.6,
  "alert_cooldown_sec": 30
}
6.4 Example camera_usecases.roi
{
  "points": [[120, 80], [500, 80], [500, 400], [120, 400]],
  "frame_width": 1920,
  "frame_height": 1080
}
6.5 Example camera_usecases.params, Loitering Detection
{
  "dwell_seconds": 30,
  "confidence_threshold": 0.5,
  "alert_cooldown_sec": 60
}
6.6 Example alerts.metadata
{
  "bbox": [340, 120, 480, 390],
  "confidence": 0.87,
  "track_id": "T2291",
  "missing_ppe": ["helmet"]
}
7. Backend Features (FastAPI)
Runs both centrally and at each site from the same codebase.
•     Site, camera, and use case management, including create, update, list, and deactivate operations for sites, cameras, and camera use case configurations
•     A camera connection test endpoint that pulls one live frame from an RTSP URL to confirm connectivity before it is saved
•     A region of interest and configuration save endpoint that validates incoming JSON against the use case's schema before writing it to the database
•     An alerts API to list and filter alerts by site, camera, use case, severity, and date range, and to serve clip references
•     Authentication and scope enforcement using tokens with a site scope claim, so the central instance can query across sites while a local instance is restricted to its own
•     Sync endpoints on the central side for sites to pull configuration changes and push new alerts and health updates
•     A sync client on the local side that calls the central sync endpoints on an interval, backed by a local queue that retries on failure
•     A health and heartbeat endpoint reporting GPU utilization, disk space, and cameras online for that site
•     A bulk onboarding endpoint that accepts a CSV of cameras and creates the matching camera and camera use case rows in one call
•     Notification dispatch that can be configured per site, for example SMS, email, or a webhook, triggered when a new alert comes in
•     Audit logging of who changed which camera or use case configuration and when
8. Frontend Features (React)
A single codebase, with its mode determined by the API it points to and the logged in user's site scope.
•     A site switcher, visible only to head office users. Site level users land directly in their own site's view
•     A site onboarding form covering name, location, and timezone
•     A camera onboarding form covering name and RTSP URL, with a live test connection preview
•     Use case assignment through checkboxes for the 9 use cases per camera
•     Configuration forms for each use case, generated from that use case's schema, for example the parts and color options for PPE, or the dwell time for loitering
•     A region of interest drawing tool, overlaying a polygon on a live camera frame using a canvas library such as Konva or Fabric, saved as the roi field
•     A camera grid and live status view showing thumbnail, status, and last frame received, scoped to the current site or to all sites
•     An alerts feed showing near real time alerts with filters for site, camera, use case, severity, and time range, with linked clip playback
•     Cross site comparison views, available centrally only, for example PPE violations per site over the past week, shown side by side across all 12 sites
•     A site health grid, available centrally only, giving a single view of server status, GPU load, cameras online versus total, and last sync time for all 12 sites
•     A bulk CSV upload screen for onboarding many cameras at once, with region of interest fine tuning per camera afterward
•     Role based views, for example a supervisor role focused on alerts and camera status, an admin role for configuration and onboarding, and a head office role for cross site reporting
9. Development Flow
9.1 Configuration schema, per use case
Each use case defines its own configuration shape, stored as JSONB, as shown in sections 6.3 to 6.5. This schema drives the dashboard's configuration form for that use case and is validated on the server before it is saved.
9.2 Plugin interface, shared across all 9 use cases
All use case plugins implement one interface, with an initializer that takes the region of interest and parameters, and a process method that takes a frame and the shared detections and returns a list of alerts. This is what allows all 9 use cases to run inside one camera agent process per camera, instead of separate executables.
9.3 Build steps per use case
•     Define the configuration schema, including fields, defaults, and validation, and store it as JSONB in camera_usecases.params
•     Write the plugin class implementing the shared interface
•     Confirm the model dependency, either reusing an existing shared model such as a person or vehicle detector, or adding a new one to the shared model layer
•     Unit test the plugin logic against sample detections and configuration, without needing a live camera
•     Integration test against recorded clips, covering both violation and compliant footage
•     Register the plugin so the camera agent can load it by name
•     Build it into the shared camera agent package, one build for all cameras rather than one per use case
•     Run quality assurance on one live test camera before enabling the use case more broadly
9.4 Dashboard onboarding flow
•     Add the site, with name, location, and timezone
•     Add the camera, with name and RTSP URL, using the test connection button to preview a live frame
•     Assign use cases, using checkboxes for the 9 use cases per camera
•     Configure each use case, drawing the region of interest on a live frame and setting the use case specific fields
•     Review and deploy, which finalizes the camera use case rows and notifies the camera agent to pick up the new configuration
•     Use bulk CSV onboarding for sites with many similarly configured cameras
10. Deployment Flow
10.1 Per camera runtime
One camera agent process runs per camera, as a Windows Service, loading only the plugins enabled for that camera as classes within the same process. It decodes the stream once and calls the shared models once per frame, with no separate executables spawned and no duplicate model loading.
10.2 Site topology
•     12 sites, each running its own on premises Windows GPU server with a local Postgres database, local camera agents, a local backend API, a local dashboard build, and local storage
•     1 additional server at head office, reserved for the central Postgres database, the central backend API, and the central dashboard build
•     A site to head office VPN, using the native Windows WireGuard client, connects each site to head office
10.3 Sync mechanism
•     Configuration: each site's sync agent pulls its own configuration changes from head office on a schedule and applies them to its local database
•     Events: each site pushes alert events and health updates, not raw video, to head office from a local queue, retrying automatically if the connection is down
•     Video and clips remain local to each site. Only lightweight event and summary data travels to head office
10.4 Updates and scaling
•     Plugin and model updates are pushed as new versions of the camera agent package, which each site pulls and restarts, avoiding a manual rebuild at every site
•     GPU capacity per site should be benchmarked on a small number of cameras first, then sized for the full site based on the shared model's throughput
•     New cameras and sites are onboarded through the dashboard and configuration, with no new code required
11. Project Folder Structure
cv_platform/
├── camera_agent/                Python service, runs per camera as a Windows Service
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── stream.py        	RTSP connect and reconnect
│   │   ├── shared_models.py 	person and vehicle detector, loaded once
│   │   ├── agent.py         	main per camera loop
│   │   └── alert_dispatcher.py  sends alerts to local database and sync queue
│   ├── usecases/
│   │   ├── base.py          	shared use case plugin interface
│   │   ├── ppe_check.py
│   │   ├── anpr.py
│   │   ├── container_tracking.py
│   │   ├── spill_detection.py
│   │   ├── fire_smoke_detection.py
│   │   ├── intrusion_alerts.py
│   │   ├── loitering_detection.py
│   │   ├── stock_counting.py
│   │   └── productivity_insights.py
│   ├── registry.py          	maps use case name to plugin class
│   └── config/
│   	└── db_client.py     	reads camera and camera use case config from the local database
│
├── model_server/                shared inference layer, Triton or ONNX Runtime configs and models
│   ├── models/
│   └── configs/
│
├── backend_api/                 FastAPI, deployed centrally and at each site
│   ├── routers/
│   │   ├── sites.py
│   │   ├── cameras.py
│   │   ├── usecases.py
│   │   ├── alerts.py
│   │   ├── health.py
│   │   └── sync.py          	config pull and event push endpoints, central side
│   ├── models/              	ORM models (SQLAlchemy)
│   ├── schemas/             	Pydantic request and response schemas
│   ├── auth/                	token auth and site scope enforcement
│   └── main.py
│
├── sync_agent/                  runs at each site, pulls config, pushes events, local queue
│   └── sync.py
│
├── dashboard/                   React app, one build, deployed at head office and at each site
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   │   ├── Sites/
│   │   │   ├── Cameras/
│   │   │   ├── UsecaseConfig/   per use case config forms and the roi drawing tool
│   │   │   ├── Alerts/
│   │   │   └── HealthMonitor/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── RoiCanvas/   	polygon roi drawer, Konva or Fabric
│   │   │   └── SiteSwitcher/	visible only for head office users
│   │   ├── config/
│   │   │   └── apiBase.ts   	points to local or central backend api
│   │   └── api/             	calls to backend api
│   └── package.json
│
├── db/
│   ├── migrations/           	schema for sites, cameras, usecases, camera_usecases, alerts, site_health
│   └── schema.sql
│
├── deploy/
│   ├── windows_service/      	service install scripts, for example NSSM configs
│   ├── docker/               	Dockerfiles for the agent, backend api, and dashboard
│   └── onboard_site.py       	turns a CSV of cameras into database rows for bulk onboarding
│
└── docs/
12. Operational Must Haves
These should be built in from the start rather than added later.
Area
What is needed
Image and model updates
A versioned camera agent package, which sites pull and restart on update
Health monitoring
A per-site heartbeat covering server status, GPU load, and last frame received per camera, shown on the central health grid
Storage and retention
A local clip retention policy with an automatic cleanup job at each site
GPU capacity planning
Benchmarking cameras per GPU before committing to server sizing at each site
Alert delivery
A pluggable delivery method per site, for example SMS, email, an on-site screen, or integration with the client's existing systems
Time sync
NTP or the Windows Time service on all site servers, for accurate event correlation across sites
Security
No public exposure of local dashboards or databases, an authenticated sync API, token based scope enforcement, and clip encryption if required
Backup and recovery
Configuration is recoverable through resync from head office, and local event and clip history needs its own backup plan

13. What the Team Should Focus On Now
•     Define the shared use case plugin interface and the configuration schema pattern described in section 9.2
•     Build the camera agent, covering stream connection, the shared model call, and the plugin dispatch loop, as a Windows Service
•     Build the first two or three use case plugins, starting with PPE Check and Loitering Detection since both use the person detector, tested end to end on real footage
•     Stand up the Postgres schema from section 6 and the sync agent, covering configuration pull and event push with a local queue
•     Build the backend API with site scope aware authentication, so local and central behavior is correct from the start
•     Build the dashboard onboarding flow, from site to camera to use case to region of interest and configuration to deploy, along with the site switcher for head office mode
•     Pilot the full flow, including the local dashboard, the central dashboard, and sync, on one site before rolling out to all 12
 


</USER_REQUEST>
<ADDITIONAL_METADATA>
The current local time is: 2026-08-20T01:33:55+05:30.
</ADDITIONAL_METADATA>
